When we were talking about
modeling in the first lesson,
we were describing states or
finite states in
particular as representing the different
behaviors of your application.
So what do we do with the extra
states that we're used to knowing?
So this is sort of the difference between
qualitative and quantitative state.
Where qualitative means it
describes something like a mode or
a status of your app that determines
the behavior, and then quantitative more
describes things that don't really have
anything to do directly with the states.
For example going back to
me as a state machine,
I can be either asleep or awake and
that determines my behavior.
But I could also have different
attributes like my height or
my age which more or less don't
really affect the behavior directly.
They're not specific ways of
categorizing my behavior,
they're just attributes of me.
Or my favorite color,
my eye color, things like that.
So in xstate we represent this so
called extended state or
state that's not finite state in context.
And we could update that context
using an assign action creator.
And then we can read from
the context via state.context.
So let's take a look at how this
looks in an actual application.
I'm going to go back to the machine
that I created in our sandbox over here.
And the way we add a context,
which is our initial data so
to speak for the machine,
is by specifying the initial
context in the context
property of the machine.
So I could say for example count: 42.
And so now in my app when I'm reading and
when we're going to
actually read the context.
When we're reading the state, we could
read the state.context and get that data.
So over here it's logging count: 42,
just because that is exactly what
we specified in the state.context.
Now what if we want to actually
to modify that context.
Well, we use an action to do so.
So I'm gonna create an assign action here
and I'm gonna pull this in from xstate.
And then the easiest way to do this
is to pass an object in here and
the parts of the context that you want
to change go in that object over here.
So we could say counts, and
let's just change this now to a 100.
All right, so the count is still 42.
But now if I send SUCCESS,
which is where that action is defined,
the counts changes to 100.
Now this is changing it to a static value.
You could also change it to a value
depending on what the current context and
the events that was passed in gives you.
So we could increment
the counts by saying,
just gonna say context.count + 1.
And so now we send SUCCESS,
the count is 43.
Especially if we have
events with a payload,
we could base it on that
events payload as well.
So let's say that we have
in events.value and so
we have to add that payload, so
we're just gonna say value 10.
So now that's going to take
the current context, count,
and it's going to add 10 to it.
And so now you could see the count is 52.
Yeah, so keep in mind that even if
you have other properties in here,
such as, name David,
those aren't affected by this assign
action because in this case
we're only modifying the counts.
So if I add a 10 again, I still have
the name of David, and the count is 52.